hey there in this video I'm going to do
my best to explain to you how The Tick
Tock algorithm Works in 2023
[Music]
important thing that you need to
understand about the tick tock algorithm
is that it works fundamentally different
than any other social media platform and
it's the algorithm that sets Tick Tock
apart makes it so addictive and engaging
and also it's the double-edged sword
that cuts a lot of content creators and
rubs them the wrong way this distinction
is that Tick Tock has what's called a
Content based algorithm and most other
social media platforms have a social
based algorithm in its simplest terms
what this means is that Tick Tock cares
most importantly about the content that
you are engaging with and they determine
the next video you will see based off
how you interact with this content other
social media apps care a lot more about
the social component who are you
following who are those people following
what kinds of videos are the people who
you're following interacting with what
are people who are in your Social Circle
or people who you're interacting with
regularly what are they posting about
what kinds of things are they interested
in what topics are the people who you
engage with the most posting about tick
tock on the other hand primarily looks
at what kind of things are you
interested in what kind of videos are
you watching what kind of content are
you engaging with liking saving and
sharing while other platforms do take
content into account and while Tick Tock
does take a little bit of the social
component into account as well Tick Tock
cares first and foremost about the
content which is why one of the most
important fundamental strategies for
growing on Tick Tock and I would imagine
if you're watching this video it's
because you want to grow on Tick Tock is
identifying your Niche step one for
going on Instagram on YouTube on Twitter
or on Tick Tock is identifying your
Niche and the niche is basically the
topic that you're going to be posting
about and the reason that matters from
an algorithm perspective is because
again Tick Tock cares about your content
so when your content is consistently
about one topic your Niche then the
algorithm can better predict and learn
what that Niche is it can basically
learn what your content is going to be
about and then it can improve who it's
showing it to it can show it to people
who are really interested in that kind
of topic who are really invested in that
Niche or who like content that's already
related to of that Niche so when you
consistently post videos that are
related to your Niche the algorithm can
serve those videos up to people who are
most likely interested in that content
that's the algorithm's job that's how
you win and that's how they being Tick
Tock wins if they're consistently
showing videos that people are
interested in and people are going to
spend more time on the platform which
means Tick Tock can make more money
selling advertisements and just
increasing people's overall time on Tick
Tock when you don't have a niche and you
post about 50 different things copying
every random Trend that pops up without
a clear topic or focus and the algorithm
is going to really struggle to determine
who to show your content to speaking of
Niche and topic how does the algorithm
figure out what those things are well
it's looking at pretty much everything
listening to the words that you're
saying in your video reading any text
that you're putting on the screen
reading your caption your hashtags and
it's even reading the comments that
people are leaving and the comments that
you are responding to them with but once
the algorithm determines your Niche and
figures out what your content is about
how does it determine whether or not
your content is good and how does it
determine whether or not to push your
car content out to hundreds thousands or
millions of more people the number of
views that you get on your video is
ultimately tied to the amount of
Engagement that your video is getting
the more engagement you can get early on
the better but that's not necessarily a
one size fits all lots of videos will
blow up and go viral weeks or even
months after they were originally posted
and Tick Tock is considering hundreds if
not thousands of different points of
Engagement they're not just looking at
likes saves shares and comments they're
also looking at comment length comment
content who people are sharing videos
with are they sharing videos within the
tick tock platform or are they texting
videos or are they sharing videos to
their Instagram stories Tick Tock is
looking at thousands and thousands of
different data points to determine if
your video is good or not and while all
forms of Engagement matter of course
some are weighted more heavily than
others one that we have found that is
rated particularly high on Tick Tock
especially as of late is watch length
and I want to be very clear here that
watch length is different than watch
duration I think it'll be easiest to
explain with an example if I have a 10
second video and a 30 second video and
you watch 10 seconds of each video then
the watch length of each video is equal
because they're both 10 seconds the
watch rate however is different the 10
second video that you watch for 10
seconds that has a 100 watch rate but
the 30 second video that you watched for
10 seconds only has a 33 watch rate on
platforms like YouTube shorts or
Instagram reels watch rate is really
what matters and so that 33 watch rate
would not be very good that's why really
short videos oftentimes perform better
on Instagram reels and YouTube shorts
but on Tick Tock it's a little bit
different Tick Tock seems to prioritize
watch length or at least weight it more
heavily than some of these other
platforms so let's continue with this
example using these same two videos one
video is 10 seconds one video is 30
seconds let's say you watch them both
for 15 seconds so for the 10 second
video you watched it until it was
completed and then you watched it a
second time halfway through that's in
150 watch rate that's awesome on
Instagram reels or on YouTube shorts
let's also say you watch the 30 second
video for 15 seconds that's only we have
50 watch rate so it's a one-third of the
watch rate of the other video but again
on Tick Tock it's the watch duration the
watch length the view length that really
counts and so the point I'm trying to
illustrate here is that shorter isn't
always better on Tick Tock I know a lot
of people have this idea that if you're
using a five to seven second video it's
going to be watched over and over again
and that's what's going to go viral but
that isn't necessarily the case
especially when you're comparing Tick
Tock to some other platforms Tick Tock
really values watch duration so if you
can create longer videos that are still
engaging longer videos that keep your
viewers watching even if it's not
watching all the way to the end just
watching for longer than just a few
seconds you're likely going to win and
you're likely going to have Success With
The Tick Tock algorithm the final thing
that I'm going to say about the tick
tock algorithm is that it's extremely
inconsistent and that's because Tick
Tock has a massive quantity of videos
posted every single minute more videos
than YouTube and Instagram people are
posting a ton on tick tock on Instagram
it's abnormal able to post more than one
to two times per day to your feet but on
Tick Tock it's very normal to post
multiple times a day four or five six
times some creators even upwards of
double digits every single day to their
Tick Tock and so that just means that
there's lots of competition lots of
other content out there so more than any
other platform I want to stress to you
quantity matters and quantity should be
your focus rather than Quality quality
absolutely matters and I'm not telling
you to post crap I spent this entire
video talking to you about content and
how your video needs to be high quality
but the only way you're going to make a
high quality video is by posting a lot
of videos and the only way that the
algorithm is going to reliably work for
you is if you reliably work for it which
means that you have to start creating
more content and posting frequently very
frequently over on Tick Tock there's a
lot of competition out there and there's
a lot of other creators who are posting
all the time so if you want to
consistently have videos that are doing
well that are getting more views than
they did in the past or that are even
going viral then you're gonna have to
start posting more frequently over on
Tick Tock thank you so much for watching
and if you learned something during this
video I hope you press subscribe because
I put out more content like this all the
time
[Music]